---
title: Front-end (September)
author: Hendrik
authorURL: http://twitter.com/ericnakagawa
authorFBID: 6612771733
---

## History - The greatest teacher

As we all know, _History is the greatest teacher_, but when looking through the git commit history
in many of our repositories this is definitely not the case.

We have all seen it, running a `git log --pretty=short --abbrev-commit` returns something like:

```
b1fb7368 code review
9a5dc574 fixed the thing
1a824978 linting
b24eab77 index issue
dbbbae08 unit tests
```

Here we can see that Hendrik writes the worst commit messages that all mean nothing to any developer
after him. This guy.

### There is a better way

There are standards which (when followed) allow for clearer communication in commit messages, making
it immediately clear what actually happened. One of these set of standards are the
[Angular Commit Message Standards](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines),

When following the guidelines, and adding a bit more love to each commit message, it is possible to
make it clear what is happening in the codebase.

### Yeah cool, but why?

As mentioned above, with proper commit messages it becomes a lot clearer what happened or what the
intent of a particular commit is. Another great benefit is that when all commits for a release are
well-formatted a tool like
[conventional-changelog](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog) can be
used at the end of a release cycle to generate the development changelog automatically. Beautiful.

### Okay, but I'll still forget

No stress, I got'ya fam. There are some command-line tools that automatically lint commit messages
and help make sure that messages are well formatted before they get pushed up. A
[Frontend Commit Message Conventions](http://wiki.armorica.gk/index.php/Frontend_Commit_Message_Conventions)
Wiki page has been added with a step by step on how to add this to your project(s).

With the above in place Henrik can't send you his nonsense commit messages again. Success.
